In linux every thing is considered as file. and every file has its permissions divided in 3 types, these permission are very imp also for 
to navigate from one directory to respected directory and access file.
if we dont have permissions we cant access the file.it simply gives a error."access denied"
and i think its also the reasion that we dont have any threat of external any malware file that entered while surfing.
The file [ermissions are {
Basic File Permissions :
Each file nd directory have three user based permission groups : 
1) user     - the user permission is of the current user on machine or the other user on the same machine.
2) group     - the group permission as ex-we make a group on machine ,to work in team on samee project,so all the members in that group will get same permission of group.
                so,in case to give everyone once by once permissions we can give them permissions at same time in group. 
3) all others - others members are the members who not created that file and also not in group. its just like the permissions of file are public.

Permission Types :
Each file or directory has three basic permission types:
1) read (4)   - The Read permission read the contents of the file.
2) write  (2) - The Write permissions write or modify a file or directory.
3) execute(1) - The Execute permission execute a file or view the contents of a directory.

We use ls -l to see information about a file
also  we get info about its permissions 
the permissions of any file are given in three sections -
as
1) user
2) group
3)others
the permissions are about read ,write and execution of that file,
    
Commands are available to change the owner and the group of files :

1) chown :The command we used to change the owner of file.
2) chgrp : the cmd we used to change the group of file.
3) chmod :we use it to change mode of file,as by this cmd we can manupulate given permissions of file.  

     
Total Read, Write and Execute permissions :

1) Execute permission                                        :	--x
2) Write permission                                          :	-w-
3) Execute and write permission: 1 (execute) + 2 (write) = 3 :	-wx
4) Read permission                                           :	r--
5) Read and execute permission: 4 (read) + 1 (execute) = 5   :	r-x
6) Read and write permission: 4 (read) + 2 (write)     = 6	 :  rw-
7) All permissions: 4 (read) + 2 (write) + 1 (execute) = 7	 :  rwx
